these are the first days of summer break
in the occupied West Bank it's a weekend
and this Cafe is in the heart of ramalan
this is usually a recipe for success but
since the war on Gaza started the cafe
owners say they're scared they'll be
forced to shut
down we haven't been able to pay the
rent since the war started and have
chicks bouncing back we have so much
debt to our service
providers usually at this time of the
year they would hire extra work ERS now
they've had to lay off half of their
staff sua Haj Hindi kept her job as a
waitress she's an interior designer who
says she's lost two jobs since the war
started even at this Cafe they laid off
many male employees and needed me
because my salary is less for men the
pay is not enough to sustain a
family Palestinian workers in Israel
used to bring much needed cash to the
occupied West Bank they were estimated
at 22% of the workforce before the war
now that Israel has banned their entry
they barely make up
2.3% according to a recent survey by the
international labor
organization another obstacle facing the
economy is Israel's decision to withhold
tax revenue that belongs to the
Palestinian
Authority the PA has been struggling to
pay its employees their salaries in full
which hinders the economic cycle even
more Israel has been systematically
undermining the Palestinian economy for
decades by controlling the Palestinian
resources and lands it created a weak
economy dependent on Israel and withheld
the Palestinian authorities money to
minimize its role in dealing with the
crisis business owners say they are left
alone facing the financial
crunch the local authorities are not
making emergency laws or decisions to
help us survive this tough period one of
the hardest hit sectors in Palestine is
tourism the Church of the Nativity is
one of the main tourist attractions here
and a main source of income for
Palestinians now many stores here have
closed down and people say every day
this war continues it adds another
burden on the short and long terms one
they might need decades to recover from
nid ibraim Al jaaz the occupied West
Bank
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer